A few months ago, we changed
our public documentation to
organize the Azure networking
services and features
into four pillars.
I'm here to talk to you
about the hybrid connectivity
pillar, which is also
reflected in the Azure portal.
When I say hybrid
connectivity, I mean getting
from the physical world,
on-prem or from a device like
a cell phone or a laptop,
into resources in Azure.
First, let's look at
the Azure VPN service.
VPN gateway is a collection
of objects in Azure working
together to enable an IPsec
or TLS tunnel to Azure
across the Internet.
This is done in one of two
ways, with site-to-site
tunnels starting at your
on-premise location with
a physical device like a
router or firewall, or a
point-to-site connection
from your mobile device
like a cell phone, tablet,
laptop, or other supported
Internet connected devices.
For both point-to-site and
site-to-site, you start
with a VPN gateway connected
to your Azure VNet.
With point-to-site, a client
application or client config,
is installed on the device
and is connected securely
to the VPN gateway.
For a site-to-site connection,
a local network gateway object
is created that represents
the IP address of the on-prem
device and then a connection
object is created to join
the local network gateway
to the VPN gateway.
This establishes the secure
tunnel through the Internet.
Next, we look at the
ExpressRoute service.
Like VPN, ExpressRoute is
about getting connectivity
from your premise
to Microsoft, but in
ExpressRoute's case,
doing this by not
using the internet.
Most customers work with
a service provider like
AT &T or any of our over
200 ExpressRoute partners
to provide a private,
non-internet path to
Microsoft's network.
Once connected with an
ExpressRoute circuit, you
can go to Microsoft public
and Azure public services
like SQL Server, Azure
Storage, Dynamics, or
in some cases, M365.
This is done using public
IP addresses over Microsoft
Peering, the orange
lines in this diagram.
In this scenario, you would
also use a route filter
feature to reduce the BGP
overhead to only receive
the specific address
ranges for the regions
or services you need.
However, most commonly
used is private peering.
This is the blue box
in the lower right-hand
corner of the diagram.
Using an ExpressRoute gateway
on the VNet and a connection
object between the circuit
and the gateway allows you
to extend your corporate
on-premise private network
into Azure and access your
Azure resources directly
on this private data path.
Again, not using the Internet.
ExpressRoute enables you to
connect multiple ExpressRoute
gateways in the same or
different regions back
to the same circuit.
For our largest premium
ExpressRoute circuit,
that could be up to 100
ExpressRoute gateways in any
region in the world back to
the same ExpressRoute circuit.
There's also an ExpressRoute
direct port option, which
would replace the partner
edge in the diagram.
This allows you to connect
your edge router directly to
the Microsoft routers in a
facility for direct connection
to the Microsoft network.
Also, for monitoring, we
offer the ExpressRoute
Traffic Collector.
This feature can provide
detailed flow data on your
circuits to be able to
identify things like top
talkers or other traffic-based
metrics and queries.
The final service I'll
cover in the hybrid
connectivity pillar is
our virtual WAN service.
As the diagram shows, Virtual
WAN, also called vWAN, brings
together all of the features
of ExpressRoute and VPN,
and then extends them for
any-to-any connectivity
into and across Azure.
If you're familiar with a
hub-and-spoke architecture,
a Virtual WAN implements this
in a concise, single-object
structure to implement the
hub-and-spoke scaffolding
much faster than you
could build yourself.
If you use a vWAN-aware
SDN hardware device on
your premise, you get
large-scale VPN automation.
Just log into your on-prem
device with your Azure
credentials, and it can
auto-configure the device and
establish the IPsec connection
back to your vWAN hub.
This is great if you
have many branch offices
or retail outlets that
need VPN connections to
your Azure workloads.
vWAN also integrates with
Azure Firewall, but not just
Azure's firewall, but also
to other popular firewalls
from the marketplace to turn
your regular vWAN hub into
what we call a secure hub.
This allows you to use the
firewall of your choice and
your unique security policies
to make your WAN secure.
vWAN introduces many other
routing features like route
maps, routing intent, and
others to manage the flows
across the virtual WAN.
All of this together allows
you to enable, secure, and
control your network traffic,
making the Microsoft backbone
and Azure your corporate WAN.
Hopefully this provides
some insight into the
three main services in our
hybrid connectivity pillar,
Azure VPN, ExpressRoute,
and Virtual WAN.